Prayer is an important thing.
With everything I do,
I always go to Jehovah in prayer
and ask for his guidance.
I was born on the 26th of March, 1923
in Panama.
I was baptized in August 1946
in Cleveland, Ohio.
I started pioneering
in January of 1947.
There are a couple of scriptures
that have been most influential in my life.
One is Psalm 55:22,
which says:
“Throw your burden on Jehovah,
“and he will sustain you.
Never will he allow
the righteous one to fall.”
One of the most trying experiences of my life
was facing the Selective Service Board.
I registered as was required by law,
and I received the classification of 1-A
—fit for military service.
I then spoke
with the Society’s Legal Department,
and I was instructed to appeal the decision
because I was a regular pioneer.
I had to go to the draft board,
and there I was severely questioned.
One of the problems they had
was that I had a part-time job,
and they felt that
that interfered with my being classified
as a full-time minister.
However, because I was conducting
about 12 Bible studies at that time,
I took copies
of all those records
and presented them to the board.
The chairman said to me,
“Are you saying that if we were
“to talk to all of these people,
they would tell us
that you are conducting Bible studies
with them every week?”
And I said, “Yes, Sir.”
While they are deliberating,
I am praying hard, “Jehovah, help them
to make a proper decision.”
In a few days’ time,
the classification card came as 4-D.
I was classified as a Religious Minister,
and I lifted my thoughts to Jehovah and said,
“Thank you, Jehovah, very much!”
When I was in the circuit work in Cuba,
I had a few encounters with soldiers.
It’s difficult to understand
the tense atmosphere
that existed back in those days
and the freedom that those rebels had
with shooting people—even Batista’s people.
They didn’t give it a second thought.
I had just got through
serving a congregation in the hills,
and we took the local bus
that ran around that area.
And on the highway,
two soldiers stopped the bus
and ordered all the men to get off.
They started looking
at each of us one by one,
sending everybody back on the bus.
They looked at me and said:
“You! Stay there!”
They pointed a rifle at me
and said, “Who are you?”
And I explained myself,
but they kept pointing the rifle.
One of the soldiers said
to the driver, “Take off!”
That’s when you pray hard,
and you remember the scripture
at Proverbs 29:25:
“Trembling at men is a snare,
but the one trusting in Jehovah
will be protected.”
The driver said: “No!
He’s a circuit overseer!
He rides with me all the time.”
And he really defended me
and made me believe
that Jehovah’s angels intervened.
And that’s why I say
that I am a slave to prayer.
It’s the most important thing in my life.
When I came back to the United States,
I was being used
by the Service Department
in the full-time work.
A few years later,
I had to give up the full-time work
and take care of my family.
The adjustment I had to make
to be a family man was hard
because most of my life
was occupied in full-time service.
But I had to leave matters
in Jehovah’s hands.
We started the prison ministry
around May of 1974.
It gives you a measure of satisfaction
in seeing how the Bible
has a very strong influence
on individuals
—to see criminals
turn their life completely around.
The Bible changes lives,
and that’s why pioneering
has always been in my heart.
And so after my wife died,
I felt that the proper thing to do
was to get back into the full-time service.
As a result of that,
I started pioneering again in 1998.
Jehovah God has been good to me,
and at my age of 96,
I thank Jehovah every day
for the health and strength
that he permits me to enjoy
—and I keep on going.